# Kinetic_proofreading

This Repository contains the raw dataset and data analysis files for the paper "Kinetic Proofreading can Enhance Single Nucleotide Discrimination in a Non-enzymatic DNA Strand Displacement Network". The link of the paper will be updated as the paper becomes publicly available.

Data also available at : https://zenodo.org/record/8132461

The folders "1. Lock opening", "2. Reporter", "3. Template recovery", "4. Discard pathway" contain raw experimental data, extracted concentrations and rates for the respective reactions.

Disclaimer: Excel tabs named "Table All Cycles" contain the original data from the plate reader. Any other tabs are generated by the authors (RM and AS) for several data visualisation and analysis purposes and may not be relevant to the reader. To check the original data and graphs, please refer to the Mathematica files and SI of the paper for fluorescence signal processing. 

Inside each folder "1. Lock opening", "2. Reporter", "3. Template recovery", "4. Discard pathway", there are certain folders.

Conc: Contains the extracted concentration of the dedicated species (from the analysis files provided in the folder Mathematica)
Normalized signal: Contains the normalized signal from the ALexa and Cy3 channels
Cy3 signal conc: Contains the concentration extracted from the Cy3 signal 
Data: Contains the concentration signal obtained from Alexa channel
Sim: Contains the predicted simulations value of the [MPR]+[PR] signal in the Template recovery and Discard pathway simulations

Folders "5. Dimer production experiment", "6. SNP", and "7. Calibration curves" have experimental data which are not fitted.

Folder "BP+RQ rates" contain the derived reaction rates for the proofreader reaction and also the reaction P+RQ->PR+Q
Folder "BT+P rates" contain the derived reaction rates for the proofreader reaction
Folder "Dimer Prediction", "Dimer Prediction (k4=0)" and "Dimer prediction (P=0)" contain the concentration of dimer MN as predicted by the dimerization reaction, dimerization reaction with backward proofreader rate = 0, and dimerization reaction with no proofreader respectively.
Folder "Mathematica" contains all the necessary data analysis files used to generate all the data. It also contains all the README files for the scripts used.
Folder "Rates" contains the extracted reaction rate constants in excel format


